{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Goal: Make sure weather pipeline is to design spec and that sahders meet visual expectations.\par
Design: The world moves and not the player. the player only moves smoothly within the confines of a single chunk. then we wrap the player and shift chunks within a grid. We use a complex unusual system of UBO's to draw the chunks where they need to be. This works really well but presents unique challenges for other systems which need to interact with the world. The world can be thought of as a 2D map basically and when I describe things in 2D I mean the worlds x and y, not screen space XY coords. Horizontal axis.\par
The world itself is generated based on a png image with encoded data telling it roughly where to put biomes. Not like a heightmap but similar idea. Biomes should have season and weather data, weather data should carry what cloud types to spawn, clouds should carry all kinds of data that can be used to define a cumulus cloud or nimbus ect. For the time being the world itself is all blank for testing, one image scaled correctly all the same color, the same biome everywhere. Each cloud type should have it's own material instanced in the engine.\par
Now there is world weather noise which defines what weather we display visually. This noise should shift like real world currents like waves up and down the world map 2 dimensionally. It should wrap around the world with the planets rotation. the noise should be stretched or enlongated parralel to the world rotation which the noise should be moving not quite uniform noise so weather patters last longer. Not just blobs but stretched patches of color or values to sample from.\par
The world is sampled from a 2D image, the weather should be similarly sampled from a virtual 2D noise as high resolution as can be had. No need for weather to be 3D or 4D. Just need it to be seamless at the edges where the chunks will wrap around the world generating. think like a tesselated photoshop image being offset filtered or wrapped. Most the movement is horizontal along the X axis for this noise for planetary rotation but some waves up and down vertically along the Y axis so weather can come in from not just the same exact direction everytime.\par
This noise will help define weather patterns, dynamically. realistically. weather will be generated by this noise, by the biome, by the season but also by chances of next weather so we can chain cloudy and partially cloudy and any other weather designed to follow another. This should not be 100% garanteed. We will need a possible next weather field to store possible next weathers with chances and that will only be a suggestion for the system to consider.\par
The idea of the noise is that on any point int he planet we have a consistent way to generate the same weather patterns. So the noise is very large. the up and down wave movement is meant to be very large and thus slow. The noise determines how weather actually moves across the terrain actually and the noise also moves slow. There should be a KPH setting int he EngineSettings which determines how fast weather actually mvoes across the terraina dn this number can be derrived mathematically by taking the world image scale and the chunks per pixel setting and using math to make sure we meet that number.\par
This weather should also generate local wind and temperature of which neither will itself be used for anything yet. Both are reserved for future systems later.\par
Visually there should be two seperate systems drawing from the same cpu side weather. They should be entirely seperate as far as shaders go, no need to tangle them together when they function very different.\par
We need to write to a UBO where in the world weathers are at. We should write for each cloud type in the weather what clouds there are using variables from the clouds read from json, where the weather is. This will tell both systems where to draw clouds, the clouds have an elevartion and height and all other variables. we know how far from the player these clouds are so we can draw them bigger and smaller and higher etc. using approximated math to make the sky look realistic at both stages. The UBO should store a vec 4 of where the weather is currently relative to the players position int he world with the X and Y being one point at which the weather is located and Z and W at another point forming a box zone in 2D space. (When I say weather be intuitive. I am referring to cloud type per weather and not accounting for when a certain pattern needs more than one box zone ect.)\par
One system will be the sky itself, it should draw clouds in the background sky sphere in rather standard ways except it should draw weather patterns in different directions using the variables from the weather log UBO. This will sample weather based on min/max distances defines in the EngineSettings. Due to this the sky should naturally (no clipping) spread clouds around the horizon not too high or low. but since they are sampled from a far distance the clouds simply are placed at the far horizon. The sky should take the same clouds variables defined to draw the correct types of clouds, it will get these fromt eh weather pattern UBO.\par
The other system is more complex and will be used to approximate realistic clouds moving over the terrain. We need a system which will approximate weather patterns using stretched, instanced, simple cube mesh. one per cloud, per weather. sometimes weather may be more complex a "T" or a boot shape for example now we can use 2 mesh to approximate the shape or 3 or 4 if really necesary. but minimal stretched mesh per cloud per weather. These stretched mesh will get the material for the cloud type that we instanced. The material should define variables for a shader. Similar to the sky shader the shader should work off the same clouds variables to draw cloud types. This will tell the game how to draw a AAA volumetric cloud inside the box.\par
The tricky part is a bit hard to wrap yoru head around but is important to avoid clipping distances. Weather mesh should at most be settings.maxRenderDistance far away. This is to keep them always ont eh screen int eh cameras range. However this created a gap between what we can see and what the skybox should be displaying. To cover this distance and minimize seams we need to ramp up the distance at which the overhead system samples weather patterns fromt eh center of the world. towards center where the player is we need to sample the actual weather int hat area of the world but as we get closer to settings.maxRenderDistance  we need to sample the weather at the near side of where the skybox is sampling weather defined in EngineSetting. This means the overhead clouds are a simulation of the total sky between the player and the skybox but localized over the world itself at all times.\par
When done correctly weather in the skybox will be derrived from the weather UBO within the defined distance. The weather will be simply handed off to the overhead system to be rendered directly over the terrain. Nothing CPU side will actually do the handoff it is a byproduct of the design of how we track weather and how the systems handle clouds and the shaders render them. So long as we track things correctly and consume them using similar shader mathematics things will naturally line up enough there should not be a huge seam. A seam yes but with hopefully any luck it will nto be huge.\par
Current problems: The overhead weather clouds are too dark, I see no lighting ont hem at all. They should be based off lighting, sky color and they should approximate lighting being bounced off the world itself using efficient fake designs for performance. All overhead clouds right now look black.\par
Instructions: Do not be lazy. No shortcuts or half assing. This should be done correctly and professionally no matter how big the stages are. Almost no notes. Nothing needs to be documented. A brief paragraph maybe at the top of classes maximum. Existing notes can be stripped out for neatness. Implement this in discrete stages to preserve tokens. Stop after each stage for review. Print every modified file in full directly in chat, and never generate downloadable files or partial code. Give stage one immediately.\par
}
 